Subject	Plan for next 3 weeks (9/30-10/18)
Saved By     Christopher Jones
Modified Date		  Sep 28, 2013 10:54 am
Beginning Date		  
Ending Date		  
Groups site
Message
Week1:

9/30 By Monday, I will have resources posted as follows:

1. you tube video cleaning up material from Thursday's lecture and setting up barotropic vorticity equation (BVE)
2. Scheme for 3-mode projection from BVE (Charney-deVore model). This will include some integration exercises the results of which will be needed for the class. (for Tuesday's class)
3. you tube video on heteroclinic and homoclinic orbits in dynamical systems (for Thursday's class)
4. Papers by Crommelin, Charney-de Vore and de Swart.

10/1 Brief discussion of PV conservation and conditions for existence of a streamfunction (please watch you tube video 1 above for background on this.) The rest of the class will be devoted to a derivation of the Charney-deVore model. We will do this as a group exercise: splitting up different parts and then putting it all back together at the end.

10/3 In class: Focus on Crommelin's paper and Dijkstra's interpretation(sections 7.2 and 7.3). Please look at the original Charney-de Vore paper (1979) and that of Crommelin et al. (2004). We will see how the "global" dynamical systems view can be used to interpret the jumping between steady states.

I would also like to meet with each UNC student for fifteen minutes on 10/3. I will make arrangements to connect with remote students either at the MCRN meeting or sometime by skype over this three-week period.

Week 2:

This is listed as a project week. The projects this time will be different and will not be due until 10/22. They will be based around the IPCC AR5 report and involve covering some particular topic. We will form groups and topics during this week.

This is also the week of the MCRN (see www.mathclimate.org) meetings which will be held in Chapel Hill.
The MCRN Junior Researchers Meeting will be at the Hampton Inn in Carrboro MTW and the MCRN Annual Meeting at RENCI on Europa Drive ThF.
Many of the remote participants in the class will be in Chapel Hill and it will a great opportunity for UNC students to connect with them.

10/8 There will not be formal classes this week, but I want to have a get-together of all students from the class at a time on Tuesday that overlaps with class-time.
This will be at the Hampton Inn 2:30-4:00 on Tuesday.
Since some UNC students have class until 1:45, this will give them time to get to Carrboro.
Students in the class not attending the MCRN meetings will be able to connect with the assembled group over Adobe Connect as usual.
If you are connecting remotely, please use a webcam and mic so we can see and hear you!
We will discuss the IPCC report and start planning groups and projects at this session.
I am assuming that everybody will be able to make 2:30-3:15 at least as that is during class-time.
Hopefully most people can stay (either in person or remotely) until 4p.

The session on Tuesday will be followed by a lecture by Christof Meile who is a marine scientist from the University of Georgia and he will talk about ocean biogeochemical dynamics.
we hope to broadcast this talk.

10/10 There will be NO class on Thursday, but there will be a public lecture and reception in the evening at the Friday Center.
I will post an announcement about this.
All UNC students are encouraged to attend.
The lecture will be followed by a poster session and dessert reception featuring posters by the junior researchers in MCRN.

Week 3

The second part of the week will be the UNC fall break and so only one class this week

10/15 Discussion of the "big" climate models and some of the issues underlying the IPCC report(s).

10/17 NO CLASS

The projects will be due on 10/22 and,as before, each group will make a 5 minute presentation.
